Installation instructions for PhpShell 2.0
Copyright (C) 2000-2004 Martin Geisler <gimpster@gimpster.com>
Licensed under the GNU GPL.  See the file COPYING for details.


Getting the Tarball
-------------------
You can always get the latest version of PhpShell from my homepage:

  http://www.gimpster.com/wiki/PhpShell


Installation
------------
Installation is easy: first unpack the tarball or zipfile downloaded
from the above website into your webserver.  This will create a
subdirectory called phpweather-2.0 for PhpShell version 2.0.

If you're using PhpShell on an Apache webserver running PHP as a
module, then PhpShell wont work until you've edited phpshell.php.  You
can see this when you try and load the file phpshell.php from the
directory just created --- you should get a prompt from your browser
asking you to authenticate you.  In the default setup, no username or
password will authenticate you, this what you'll have to change next.

In the phpshell.php file you'll find comments near the top that
explains how to enable access for a username with a password. In
short, you'll simply add the pair as an entry in the $passwd array
like this:

  $passwd = array('username' => 'password');

This can be expanded to multiple users with their own passwords in a
very simple way:

  $passwd = array('username_1' => 'password_1',
                  'username_2' => 'password_2',
                  // ...
                  'username_n' => 'password_n');

It is important that you password-protect PhpShell with a good
password.  If someone is able to guess your password, then they'll
have access to your webserver over the Internet, and they might be
able to erase your files, and perhaps even shutdown the webserver!  So
be careful with this and remember that you can always find the usual
disclaimer in the file LICENSE.


Shell Aliases
-------------

As in a normal shell, PhpShell supports a simple form of aliases.
Simply edit the $aliases array at the top of phpshell.php.  The keys
in the array are substituted for their corresponding values before the
commands are executed --- a couple of convenient aliases are already
defined:

  $aliases = array('ls' => 'ls -CvhF',
                   'll' => 'ls -lvhF');


Safe Mode
---------
PhpShell doesn't work if PHP is running in Safe Mode.  There is
nothing I can do about this --- Safe Mode was made to prevent scripts
just like PhpShell.  So if you're worried that people will be able to
destroy your website using a tool like PhpShell, then tell your
provider to enable Safe Mode as this makes PHP much less evil.


Bugs?
-----
If you find a bug or miss something in PhpShell, please don't hesitate
to mail me at <gimpster@gimpster.com>!

Enjoy! - Martin Geisler <gimpster@gimpster.com>
